Radiology Consultation



Clinical data: Deep venous's thrombosis and hypercoagulable state 
for placement of IVC filter

Procedure:
Following informed consent, the patient was placed supine on the 
fluroscopic table. Continuous hemodynamic monitoring was 
performed. The patient received intravenous sedation. Limited 
ultrasound of the right neck demonstrates patency and
compressibility of the right internal jugular vein without 
evidence of intraluminal thrombus. The right groin was prepped 
and draped in sterile fashion. Skin anesthesia was achieved using 
2% Lidocaine solution. The right internal jugular vein was 
punctured using a 21 gauge single wall needle. A 0.018 inch guide 
wire was advanced into the vein and the needle was exchanged for a 
5 French sheath. Via the sheath, a 0.035 inch Bentson guidewire 
was advanced into the vein and the needle was exchanged for a 5 
French vascular sheath. Via the sheath, a 5 French flush catheter 
was placed at the iliac bifurcation. Digital subtraction 
venography was performed from this station.

Findings: Inferior vena cavogram demonstrates standard anatomy. 
No intraluminal filling defects are identified to suggest 
thrombus.
Intervention: A stainless-steel greenfield vena caval filter was 
successfully deployed below the level of the renal veins without
incident within the inferior vena cava. The patient tolerated 
the procedure without complication.

Impression:

1) Normal inferior vena cavogram as above.

2) Successful deployment of IVC filter in the infrarenal IVC as 
above,
Images were reviewed and interpreted by Attending Radiologist: 

Finalized on: Apr-30-2004 4:40 PM by TalkStation Interface
Billing Codes: 36010 x1,37620 x1,75825 x1,75940 x1,14100382 x1,14102006 x1



Radiology Consultation